# heading: Education for all is a global concerned and every child has equal right to learn. Inclusive education is the outmost effective way to give all children a fair opportunity to go to school, learn and develop the life skills they need to thrive. Driving all type of children under the roof of one classroom environment of a school has been globalized by one of sustainable development goals (SDG 4) that ensure inclusive and equitable quality education along with promoting lifelong learning opportunities for all. The essence of inclusive education becomes high priority in public policy of every nation. India, as a nation, has also shown a high inclination to promoting inclusion in its system of education. The present study explores about various initiatives that reflected in its three policies of education to promote inclusive education. At the same time, the study also makes an explorative comparison of these education policies with respect to how different steps and actions taken for inclusive education at all levels of education. Since its long time back, India has been promoting inclusive education through different ways that are stipulated in its education polices, and the study has inclusively attempted to establish such endeavors and actions towards quality inclusive education of the nation.

Keywords: Inclusive Education, Education Policies, School Education, Disadvantage Group

##heading: Inclusive education as an approach seeks to address the learning needs of all children, youth and adults with a specific focus on those who are vulnerable to marginalization and exclusion. It implies all learners, young people with or without disabilities being able to learn together through access to common provisions, schools and community educational setting with an appropriate network (Comprehensive Action Plan for Inclusive Education, 2005). Inclusive education presents an opportunity for students with special needs to attend mainstream classrooms with their age-group peers. It allows school children of all backgrounds to learn and grow together and refers to an education system that accommodates all children regardless of their physical, intellectual, social, emotional, linguistic or other conditions. It is all about learning together even if they differ from each other in styles and pace of learning. “Those with special educational needs must have access to regular schools which should accommodate them within a child centered pedagogy capable of meeting these needs” (The Salamanca Statement, 1994). There is a need of effective inclusive education system to give all children a fair chance to go to school, learn and develop the skills they need to achieve. Keeping this, the nation urges to provide relevant inclusive conditions of overcoming the barriers to the learning process of every child which is reflected decades after decades on various acts, schemes, provision and educational policies.
